This tale grew in the telling, until it became a history of the Great 
War of the Ring and included many glimpses of the yet more ancient history 
that preceded it. It was begun soon after The Hobbit was written and before 
its publication in 1937; but I did not go on with this sequel, for I wished 
first to complete and set in order the mythology and legends of the Elder 
Days, which had then been taking shape for some years. I desired to do this 
for my own satisfaction, and I had little hope that other people would be 
interested in this work, especially since it was primarily linguistic in 
inspiration and was begun in order to provide the necessary background of 
'history' for Elvish tongues. 

When those whose advice and opinion I sought corrected little hope to 
no hope, I went back to the sequel, encouraged by requests from readers for 
more information concerning hobbits and their adventures. But the story was 
drawn irresistibly towards the older world, and became an account, as it 
were, of its end and passing away before its beginning and middle had been 
told. The process had begun in the writing of The Hobbit, in which there 
were already some references to the older matter: Elrond, Gondolin, the 
High-elves, and the ores, as well as glimpses that had arisen unbidden of 
things higher or deeper or darker than its surface: Durin, Moria, Gandalf, 
the Necromancer, the Ring. The discovery of the significance of these 
glimpses and of their relation to the ancient histories revealed the Third 
Age and its culmination in the War of the Ring. 
